there's been a strong International
response to a BBC investigation
highlighting the ill treatment of
Palestinian medical staff by the Israeli
Defense Forces at a hospital in Gaza
last month our reporting includes
evidence of people being detained beaten
and prevented from carrying out vital
medical duties the foreign secretary
Lord Cameron says the report is very
disturbing and he's called for answers
from the Israelis and the US state
department has also seen the
investigation Israel's says it took over
the NASA Hospital in Khan Yunis last
month believing Hamas Fighters were
based there several Israeli hostages
who've been released say they were held
on the premises Israel maintains any
abuse of detainees is strictly
prohibited well Ola garan is live in
Jerusalem with the very latest for us
now
Ola Clive this was a lengthy detailed
forensic investigation by BBC
journalists carried de over several
weeks the details were checked and
crosschecked they spoke to doctors
nurses pharmacists people who were
displaced and living in the hospital
grounds now allegations that emerged
were very specific and those specific
allegations were put to the Israeli army
they did not reply to the allegations in
specifics they did not make any denial
of the specific allegations of
mistreatment but they told the BBC in
general terms that medical staff at
nassa hospital were not ill treated
during their
operation not for the first time in this
war Israeli soldiers have been filmed
standing over stripped and kneeling
detainees but these are medical staff
detained after the Israeli Army overran
the Nasser Hospital in hanun most are
still being
held for weeks the Medics had witnessed
Israel's Advance as it closed in around
the
hospital the fighting in Han yunas was
fierce thousands of people who' sought
refuge in the grounds fled Under
Fire even a hospital wasn't
safe one nurse was shot inside an
operating theater through a window
another person shot at the main entrance
the hospital was under
siege then on February 15th after giving
warnings Israeli tanks rolled
in
inside utter
chaos patients rushed from collapsing
Wards Israel says it found Hamas weapons
and medication which it says supports
accounts from Israeli hostages that they
were held
here in the idf's own footage you can
see hospital patients detained outside
in their beds and wheelchairs with their
hands zip
tied and this was the treatment for
medical staff at least 49 of them forced
to leave their posts and remove their
surgical clothing Israel says it was
searching for concealed weapons and that
among the 200 arrested at Nasser were
terrorists posing as
Medics Dr Amir auli had remained at
Nasser throughout the siege before
Israel's incursion she risked her life
to save others as people were shot
inside the
grounds later she witnessed what
happened to her fellow
doctors it was t for us to see how the
doctors who bravely stayed at the
hospital despite the dangers were
stripped and beaten their hands were
tied behind them and they were left in
the Sun for
hours Dr Ahmed Sabha is one of very few
Medics to have since been
released he shows the positions they
were forced to adopt for hours and says
they were also
tortured his hand was broken by an
Israeli soldier he says and mule dogs
were set on
him they forced us to kneel down with
our eyes
blindfolded there was a pit in the
ground and we thought they would execute
us and bury us there we said our prayers
but they were just intimidating
us the hospital manager who dealt with
the Israelis during the raid says with
so many staff detained patients
died eight doctors and 15 nurses were
left treating 250 patients you can
imagine the level of care we could give
with no water or electricity in the
hospital at that point during this time
13 patients and injured people
died Israel says any abuse of detainees
is against IDF orders and is strictly
prohibited the BBC investigation into
how Israeli troops treated staff and
patients at Nasser hospital was raised
today in the House of Commons and the
House of Lords the foreign secretary now
calling for answers these are very
disturbing pictures and reports that
have come out from this hospital and we
need to get to the bottom of what
exactly happened and we need answers
from the Israelis about that and and
when we have those then it'll be easier
to comment in Washington too questions
are being asked about the BBC
investigation good afternoon everyone
has the US raised it with
Israel uh I um have only seen the report
I don't know if we have raised it but I
would expect that we would it is the
type of cases that we that we often
raise with them uh to seek more
information and to make clear as we
always have that any detainee should be
treated in strict compliance with
International humanitarian law
the Israeli Army says it operated within
Nasser in a precise and focused Manner
and it provided equipment enabling the
hospital to function and treat patients
but with the war continuing and more
than 40 Medics still detained or missing
the hospital has been closed for
weeks and Alla Lord Cameron he says he
wants answers from the Israeli
government what are the chances of him
getting what he's asking
for well we've been trying to get some
answers ourselves tonight C uh after
that call by Lord Cameron we contacted
the foreign Ministry and the prime
minister's office they had nothing to
say the prime minister's office referred
us back to the Army I think we have to
look at how uh Israel has responded in
the last 5 months to its closest Ally
the United States we've had President
Biden as far back as December
criticizing indiscriminate bombing uh at
the weekend he has spoken again about a
lack a disregard uh for the loss of
innocent lives now Israel has not
changed the conduct of the war in
response to those remarks and I think if
it's not listening to the White House
there is less chance that it will listen
to London the foreign office is saying
it wants accountability and transparency
well Amnesty International said today
that ministers are being naive or
disingenuous if they think that the
Israeli Army can credibly investiga
investigate itself and critics would say
look over the last 5 months there have
been 30,000 plus Palestinians killed in
Gaza the vast majority of whom are women
and children many killed in broad
daylight many crushed to death in the
rubble of their own homes and there has
been no transparency or accountability
for any of that so
far okay Ola thank you for that Ola
gearing there our senior International
correspondent in
Jerusalem and you can read more about
the BBC's investigation into events at
Nasa Hospital from our senior journalist
Alice Cudi that's on the BBC website